1. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2026 Jan;28(1):83-93. doi: 10.1111/dom.70209. Epub 2025
Oct  15.

Retatrutide for the treatment of obesity, obstructive sleep apnea and knee 
osteoarthritis: Rationale and design of the TRIUMPH registrational clinical 
trials.

Giblin K(1), Kaplan LM(2), Somers VK(3), Le Roux CW(4), Hunter DJ(5)(6), Wu 
Q(1), Lalonde A(4), Ahmad N(1), Bethel MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(2)The Obesity and Metabolism Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, 
USA.
(4)Diabetes Complications Research Centre, University College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(5)Sydney Musculoskeletal Health, Kolling Institute of Medical Research, The 
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(6)Department of Rheumatology, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.

AIMS: Retatrutide, a novel synthetic molecule, is a triple agonist activating 
the glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide, glucagon-like peptide-1 and 
glucagon receptors. The TRIUMPH clinical development program evaluates its 
safety and efficacy concurrently for the treatment of obesity and two related 
complications-obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and knee osteoarthritis (OA). A 
novel basket trial design simultaneously evaluates retatrutide treatment across 
these multiple adiposity-related disease states.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: TRIUMPH consists of four Phase 3, multicenter, 
randomized, double-blind studies assessing weekly subcutaneous retatrutide 
compared to placebo, in conjunction with healthy diet and physical activity in 
over 5800 participants. The four trials consist of two weight management basket 
trials (TRIUMPH-1 and TRIUMPH-2) with OSA and/or OA protocols nested within the 
weight management trial; one weight management trial in a population with CVD 
(TRIUMPH-3); and one stand-alone OA trial (TRIUMPH-4). The primary endpoint for 
weight management is percent change in body weight, for OSA is change in 
Apnea-Hypopnea Index and for knee OA includes change in the Western Ontario and 
McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index pain subscale score. The basket trial 
permits independent analysis of weight management, OSA and OA studies with type 
I error rate controlled at α = 0.05, split between the overarching weight 
management and each basket trial.
CONCLUSIONS: By recruiting participants with shared disease exposures, the 
TRIUMPH program will assess the safety and efficacy of retatrutide for the 
treatment of adults with obesity and two of its common complications-OSA and OA.

© 2025 Eli Lilly and Company and The Author(s). Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism 
published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.70209
PMCID: PMC12673447
PMID: 41090431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Lee M. Kaplan declares providing paid 
consultation to Altimmune, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Cytoki, 
Ethicon, Kallyope, The Last Food Fight, Eli Lilly, Neurogastrx, Novo Nordisk, 
Optum Health, Oxford Medical Products, Perspectum, Pfizer and Sidekick Health. 
Professor Carel le Roux reports grants from the EU Innovative Medicine 
Initiative, Irish Research Council, Science Foundation Ireland, Anabio and the 
Health Research Board. He serves on advisory boards and speakers' panels of Novo 
Nordisk, Roche, Herbalife, GI Dynamics, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, Gila, 
Irish Life Health, Boehringer Ingelheim, Currax, Zealand Pharma, Keyron, 
AstraZeneca, Arrowhead Pharma, Amgen, AbbVie, Metsera, Nymble, Olympus and 
Rhythm Pharma. ClR is the Chair of the Irish Society for Nutrition and 
Metabolism. ClR received stock options as payment for scientific advisory board 
functions from Metsera and Nymble. ClR provides obesity clinical care in the My 
Best Weight clinic and Beyond BMI clinic and is a co‐owner of these clinics. 
David J. Hunter is the editor of the osteoarthritis section for UpToDate and 
co‐Editor in Chief of Osteoarthritis and Cartilage. DJH provides consulting 
advice on scientific advisory boards for Haleon, TLCBio, Novartis, Tissuegene, 
Sanofi and Enlivex. Dr. Virend K. Somers is funded by the National Heart, Lung, 
and Blood Institute (HL65176, HL168173 and HL160619); has served as a consultant 
for Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Lilly, Apnimed, Axsome and Mineralys; and is on the 
Sleep Number Scientific Advisory Board. Kathryn Giblin, Mary Angelyn Bethel, Amy 
Lalonde, Nadia Ahmad and Qiwei Wu are employees and shareholders of Eli Lilly 
and Company.